---
title: A new year
author: Mike
layout: post
permalink: /2010/12/a-new-year/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 199598955
views:
  - 65
categories:
  - Entrepreneurship
  - Tech Industry
tags:
  - eventlo
  - new years
---
Once again this blog has gone dark for over a month. That seems to happen whenever I get extremely busy. No apologies for it however, as it's been a productive month.

At the end of November, the first public alpha of [eventLo][1] was launched. We're holding back on any marketing or PR at the moment, until a few key issues are sorted. As it stands, the site actually looks quite vanilla, but there's a lot more going on than meets the eye. I'm likening the current site to that of an iceberg, where 90% of it's mass is below the surface. Expect to see that power wielded in the near future.

Over the month of January, we'll be hitting on several initiatives, including product improvements, market validation, and a heavy refinement process.&nbsp;I'm thrilled with how much we've accomplished in such a short period of time. The beautiful thing about having invested time in infrastructure and architecture is that future development, iterations, and improvements can be implemented at breakneck speed, without a rickety and patchy framework to hold it back.

&nbsp;

I'll be keeping the [eventLo blog][2] up to date on eventLo issues. That frees up CleverKoala to once again focus on tech industry commentary and the life of a startup technologist.

&nbsp;

Over this next year, I'll be focusing a lot of the writing on my emergence from a software focus to a broader tech industry focus. Still expect the nerdy how-tos and tech-heavy details, but much of it will be coming from a broader perspective. As my responsibilities have grown, so to has the perch from which I see my surroundings.

&nbsp;

New Year's resolution: learn to sell, responsibly

 [1]: http://www.eventlo.com
 [2]: http://blog.eventlo.com